JERUSALEM (AP) — The Israeli Cabinet unanimously approved a proposal to build over 700 housing units for Palestinians in addition to 6,000 Israeli settlement housing units in the West Bank. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's government advanced the proposal late on Tuesday, according to an Israeli official who spoke on condition of anonymity to describe the closed-door meeting.
Democratic presidential candidate Tim Ryan on Wednesday called the "Medicare for All" proposals backed by other 2020 candidates a "potential disaster" for the party, doubling down on criticism of a policy he said would cost Democrats all but two states in next year's election. The Ohio congressman devoted much of his rhetoric on Tuesday night's debate stage to questioning proposals from his more left-leaning counterparts to nationalize the nation's health system, a plan he said would take private insurance away from union workers who have sacrificed wages during negotiations in order to secure stronger health benefits. Ryan painted Medicare for All, championed most notably by Sens. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), as a losing issue across much of blue-collar America.
The MLB trade deadline has come and gone, and the Los Angeles Dodgers are roughly where they started. Sure, they got St. Louis Cardinals infielder Jedd Gyorko and Tampa Bay Rays left-handed specialist Adam Kolarek, but the team didn’t acquire a true impact arm to fortify its bullpen, by far its biggest weakness. Felipe Vazquez is still a member of the Pittsburgh Pirates. Shane Greene went to the Atlanta Braves. A bunch of other top relief options stayed put.
Consumers are being advised to not feed their dogs pig ear pet treats amid a growing salmonella outbreak. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Food and Drug Administration both issued new guidance Wednesday saying consumers should avoid the treats and advising retailers to stop selling them. Public health and regulatory officials have been investigating a multistate outbreak of human salmonella infections and a suspected link to contact with the popular dog treat, which is made of smoked pig.
My mom drank SlimFast when I was a kid, and my mom keeps the freezer packed with Lean Cuisine now. On a recent trip home, I ate “Santa Fe-style rice and beans” or “classic five-cheese lasagna” for lunch every day without noticeably depleting the pile of boxes. She doesn’t always eat these things, and I’ve never heard her express any particular conflict when she chooses to. She was young during the diet-obsessed ’80s, a time when women were told flat-out to be thin, which was dangerous and cruel and a tragic waste of women’s energy and creativity, but also, maybe, at the very least clear. There was — despite the toxicity — something a lot less contorted for the generation that could just walk calmly through the family barbecue with a meal replacement shake, explaining that they were in the mood to drop a few pounds.healthy food near me
Democracy and America’s national identity are twin themes running through much of this week’s list. In “Democracy May Not Exist, but We’ll Miss It When It’s Gone,” the Canadian filmmaker Astra Taylor tries to develop a working definition for democracy. In “Ill Winds,” the political scientist Larry Diamond looks at threats to democratic order around the world. In “This America,” the historian Jill Lepore considers the uses and misuses of American exceptionalism. And in “Spying on the South,” the late journalist Tony Horwitz retraces Frederick Law Olmsted’s antebellum journey below the Mason-Dixon line to better understand the country’s stubborn divisions. We also recommend a couple of novels, a memoir of grief, a literary biography and a reporter’s exposé of the generic drug industry.
Watching the Game of Thrones contingent take their final (and somewhat complicated) bow this weekend at Comic-Con International I found myself wondering: Will we ever see the likes of the HBO hit series again? Fans will continue to debate the creative choices made in the finale season but the overall accomplishment of David Benioff & D.B. Weiss and their writing staff was truly staggering. They not only delivered the most stirring fantasy epic since Peter Jackson’s The Lord of The Rings they did it on a weekly basis and with nuances that made the sword-and-sorcery show a must-see favorite even among non-fantasy fans.
The FBI said Richard Castro, of Florida, had bought the equivalent of "approximately 100 quadrillion [1,000 trillion] Zimbabwe bank notes" in June 2018. Use of the currency had ended years earlier, following hyperinflation. The purchase is thought to have been part of a wider money laundering scheme Castro also bought hundreds of thousands of US dollars worth of vehicles and "luxury automobile [wheel] rims". The accused initially made his fortune by illegally dealing opioids, including fentanyl and carfentanil - both of which are stronger than heroin. These were initially sold via AlphaBay and Dream Market, markets on the Tor network accessed via a special web browser only.
IRVINE, Calif., Aug. 1, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- Alteryx, Inc. (AYX), revolutionizing business through data science and analytics, today announced Dr. Michio Kaku as the featured keynote speaker for its fourth annual European user conference, taking place Oct.14-17 in London, UK. Inspire Europe 2019 will welcome hundreds of customers, partners and industry leaders to share how they've embraced the thrill of solving with Alteryx and discuss the latest trends in data science and analytics. Inspire Europe will be more customer focused than ever, amplifying the success stories of users who have leveraged the Alteryx Platform in their data science and analytic work. Attendees will experience You.Amplified—a theme that will resound from every keynote address, conference track and training session, all while celebrating the achievements of the Alteryx Community of users around the world.
July 29, 2019 - Using natural language processing tools could help providers better detect low blood sugar in patients with diabetes, leading to improved chronic disease management, revealed a study published in the journal Current Medical Research and Opinion. Low blood sugar, or hypoglycemia, occurs in 20 percent to 60 percent of patients with diabetes, researchers said. Many individuals with diabetes are unaware when hypoglycemia occurs, especially if they have recurring episodes of low blood sugar. Intervening and preventing hypoglycemia is critical for patients, as the condition can lead to adverse events like cognitive impairment, coma, and even death.
